>> Maximiliano Firtman: Import Metadata,
this is also something really simple,
really, really simple.
This is also something that
it will work only in modules.
It will actually give you the URL of
the current module within a module.
Just that, it's import.meta.url.
Yeah, there is other properties
that's not really so useful, but
it's just the URL is the only useful
property that you will probably need.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Pretty simple,
this is 2020.
Now, tagged templates, it's something better.
So it's from ES6, by the way, but
I think it's one of the most underused
features of ECMAScript these days.
Remember templates?
Templates were the one that we used
the backtick, template strings, okay?
We were using the backtick.
Well, if you create a function,
the function will receive an array.
The thing that is weird,
we receive an array of strings
as the first argument, and
then N arguments as values.
For example, if I have, this is my string,
let me try to get out of this for
a second.
So this is my string, okay?
Hello, values,
the strings array will actually be and
now you'll understand why.
And a string with Hello, "," and
another string with "!".
That's the first argument.
The second argument is the value.
So let's say we have Hello,
$ $.
This is the string in the template.
The string array will be Hello,
"," then space,
this is a space, and
then exclamation mark.
Then we'll receive the firstname and
the lastname,
not in an array, just as other arguments.
Make sense?
Yeah, kind of.
What if I don't have
the exclamation mark at the end?
You receive an empty string.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: And
give me a second for that.
It's guaranteed that the length
of the first argument,
so the length of the strings argument,
it's one more than
the rest of the arguments.
If I have two arguments here,
I have three elements in the array.
At this point, some of you will be really
confused about what's going on here, okay?
But the idea is that we are going
to receive the string and
we can interpolate what we want inside.
For example, by the way,
we can see this in action.
We can run this.
By the way, yeah, you're right.
This is not real code.
So the length of the string is 2,
the value's length is 1.
By the way, because this is not an array,
I can convert it into array
using the rest operator.
That's really simpler to manage, okay?
So that's why we have three dots.
I'm converting the rest of
the arguments as an array.
Now, going back to
the example I did before,
here I will add another thing,
like Hello, $.
I will add another space, and
I will say 5,
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Like that.
Si if I run this, I have two values.
Why two values?
Because I have two interpolations.
The values are the interpretations,
I will receive value and 5.
And you always have before and
after and strings in the middle.
That's why it's always plus 1.
Makes sense?
So if you have one value,
you have a string before and
a string after.
If you have, let's say, two values, you
have one string before, one in the middle,
one after.
That's why we have three,
that's why it's always one more.
You say, okay, but
why is this important, okay?
Because you can do a lot
of stuff with this.
And by the way,
how you can call the function, and
this part is weird, I'm sorry about this.
But you just put the name of the function
before the backtick with no parentheses.
By the way, a function name can be
anything, it can be frontendmasters,
whatever.
Then you use that name before
the backtick, no parentheses.
It's a weird syntax, okay?
It competes as the weirdest
syntax with the hash for
private properties, probably.
So this is called the tagged template.
It's a way that we have to process or
post-process the string and
return something different.
And by the way,
here I'm returning, for example,
in this case, the string plus the values.
But I can return anything, and I don't
need to return a string, by the way.
I can return an array or an object with,
for example, the strings.
Let's call this strings: strings.length,
and values: values.length.
So it's an object now.
So I can console.log and
stringify the version of that result,
and this is what I'm getting.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: So I'm passing it
on a string and not getting a string back.
I'm getting an object.
So it's up to you,
what do you wanna do with this.
You can return DOM elements.
So you can parse a string and
return DOM elements instead of strings.
You can do some kinds of JSX.
In fact,
there are a couple of frameworks or
micro-libraries out there that
will do something like this.
Have you heard about HTMX?
Well, they are taking advantage
of tagged templates to do stuff.
I want you to create
a tagged template function,
it can be called bold,
that will return every value we pass as b,
and if it's a number, and as, actually,
if it says italic,
it should be if it's something else.
For example,
>> Maximiliano Firtman: If I pass,
let me show you some examples
of what I'm expecting.
So you pass bold' ' and
you said my name is, and you pass a name,
my age is, and you pass an age, okay?
And let's say that name
is Maria and age is 40.
So if you console.log this,
what I want to see is my name is,
the name in italic, okay, like HTML, okay?
And it will say, Maria,
>> Maximiliano Firtman: My age is 40.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: So that's
one example of how you can use this,
one use case.
You can use it to create
formatted innerHTML strings.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Okay,
so let's cover one solution.
Of course, there are many solutions.
And this is, I mean, it was just playing
a little bit with the collections, okay?
This is one solution,
not probably the most efficient one, but
this is probably the one that you can
quickly understand when you look at it.
So remember,
we receive an array of strings.
And thanks to this operator, okay,
the rest operator, we are receiving
also an array of values that has 1
element less than the strings values.
So I'm iterating over the strings array.
I'm not using let of
just to keep the index,
so I can use the index on both
collections at the same time.
And I started collecting
the final output in a string.
Yeah, we can use an array,
we can use other ways to do this.
And then I'm checking, of course,
if I'm not at the end,
that means that I don't have a value for
the last string.
So I'm adding the first
string plus the first value,
the second string plus the second value.
And remember,
it ends with a string without a value.
And I'm checking the type of the value.
If it's a number, I will use this one,
if not, I will use b.
I mean, of course, it can be anything.
I'm returning that.
So then I'm calling that format,
but you can call it bold or
wherever you wanna call that,
it doesn't matter, it's just a name.
And then you can just call that.
Remember, no parentheses.
If you have parentheses, something
completely different will happen.
Because some people say, but
it's just a parentheses.
We can just add it and
it will make no noise.
No, because if you add
parentheses to that,
it will call the format function
as any other function execution,
which means the whole string
will receive as strings and
there will be no values, okay?
So you shouldn't use those parentheses,
just to see that in action there.
And remember, it's not just for
formatting strings.
I mean, the input is always a string, but
you can do wherever you want as an output.
You can go and
grab data from different sources and
return objects based on that,
based on the string.
So you can really do a lot
of weird stuff with that,
just with a string and
interpolations within the string, okay?
Makes sense?
Do have any question on tagged templates?
>> Student: This is a little general, but
in your opinion, what's the advantage of
the tagged template feature versus
just a custom function that you write?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Well,
if you use a custom function in this case,
you will have to parse the string manually
over regular expressions to actually
extract these patterns within this string,
and it's done automatically for
you with a tagged template.
So I think that's the difference,
that parsing the string to
match finding the decent spots.
These interpolation spots will
probably take more time, so
the developer experience is
better with tagged templates.